you
this lecture is about how to do faster
search by using inverted index in this
lecture we're going to continue the
discussion of the system internment
ation in particular we're going to talk
about how to support the fastest search
by using inverted index so let's think
about what a general scoring function
might look like now of course the vector
space model is a special case of this
but we can imagine many other retrieval
functions of the same form so the form
of this function is as follows
we see this scoring function of WT and
query Q is defined that as first a
function of FA that's adjustment in the
function that would consider two factors
that are shown here at the end F sub D
of D and F sub Q of Q these are
adjustment factors of a document and a
query so they are at the level of a
document and query so and then inside
this function we also see there's
another function called edge so this is
the main part of the scoring function
and these as I just said are the scoring
factors at the level of whole document
and query for example document all ends
and this aggregate function would then
combine all these now inside this each
function there are functions that would
computer the weights of the contributing
of a metric we return Ti so this is G
the function G gives us the weight of a
metric we return t I in talking the
and this HD function would then
aggregate all these weights so it will
for example take a sauna but of all the
metric query terms but it can also be a
product or could be another way of
aggregating them and then finally this
adjustment the function would then
consider the document level query level
factors to further adjusters score for
example document means no validation so
this general form would cover many
state-of-the-art additional functions
let's look at how we can score such
score document with such a function
using inverted index so here's the
general algorithm that works as follows
first these is query level and document
level factors can be pre computed in the
indexing time of course for the query we
have to compute it at the query time but
for document for example document lens
can be pre computed and then women hang
a score accumulated for each talking the
d2 computer edge edges aggregation
function over all the magic clear times
so how do we do that
well for each query time we're going to
fetch the inverter list from the
inverted index this would give us all
the documents that match this query time
and that includes T 1 F 1 and through
the MF n so each pair is document ID and
the frequency of the time in the
document then for each entry e sub J and
F sub K a particular match of the term
in this particular document in subject
we're going to compute the function G
that would give us something like that
here file F weight of this time so we'll
compute the weight contributing of net
in this query time in this document and
then we're going to update the score
accumulator for this document and this
would
we'll add this to a accumulator that
would incrementally computer function
edge so this is basically a general way
to allow us to computer all functions of
this form by using inverter index note
that we don't have to touch any document
that didn't match any query time but
this is why it's fast we only need to
process the documents that touch that
match at least one here at home in the
end then we're going to adjust the score
to computer this function f sub a and
then we can sort so let's take a look at
the specific example in this case let's
assume the scoring function is a very
simple one it just takes the sum of TF
the world here the count of a term in
the document now this simplification
would help showing the algorithm clearly
it's very easy to extend the computation
to include other weights like the
transformation of TF or talking dance or
relation or IDF waiting so let's take a
look at specific example where the
queries information security and show
some entries of the inverted index on
the right side information occurring for
documents and their frequencies also
their security occurred in three
documents so let's see how they always
works so first we iterate over all the
clear terms and we fetch the first
paratime what is that that information
right so and imagine we have all these
score accumulator is too small scored up
and store the scores for these documents
we can imagine they will be educated but
then they will all may be allocated as
needed so before we do any waiting of
terms we don't even need a score
neighbors but contacted we have these
score communities eventually are located
right so let's fetch the the entries
from the university list for information
first that's the first one
so these score accumulators obviously
would be initialized as zeros so the
first entry is T one and three three
occurrences of information in this
document since I was scoring function
assuming that the score is just a sum of
these raw counts we just need to add a 3
to the score accumulator to account for
the increase of score due to matching
this time information a document in one
and then we'll go to the next entry
that's T two and four and then we add a
4 to the score accumulator of D 2 of
course at this point that we were
allocating the score accumulator as
needed and so at this point were
allocated T 1 and T 2 in the next Vince
D 3 and we add one we allocated another
score came in at the 43 and add a 1/3
and then finding the T 4 gets a 5
because the information the term
information occurred type in five times
in this document ok so this completes
the processing of all the entries in the
inverted index for information it
processed for all the contributions of
matching information in these four
documents so now our arrows and we'll go
to the next query time that's security
so we're going to affect all the
inverted index entries for security so
in this case there are three entries and
we're going to go through each of them
the first listed T two and three and
that means security occurred three times
in T 2 and what do we do well we do
exactly the same as what we did for
information so this time we're going to
change the score humility to since it's
already allocated and what we do is to
add 3 to the existing value which is 4
so we now get the 7 for T 2 T 2 the
score is increased because of the match
to post the information and security go
to the next entry that's T 4 and 1 so we
would update the score 44 and again we
add 1 to default so T 4 goes from 5 to 6
finally we process T five and a three
since we have not yet allocated a score
accumulated 45 at this point with an
allocated 145 and we're going to add 3
to it so those scores in the last room
are the final scores for these documents
if our scoring function is just a simple
sum of TF values now what if we actually
would like to do lens from relation
where we can do the normal taking at
this point for each document so to
summarize this I so you can see we first
to process the information the turn we
return information and we process all
the entries in the inverted index for
this time
then with process security alright so
think about what should be the order of
processing here when we consider query
terms
it might make difference especially if
we don't want to a cure to keep all the
score accumulated let's say we only want
to keep the most promising score human
ladies what do you think it would be a
good order to go through would you go
would you process a common term first or
which you process a real confers the
answer is we should go to who should
process the real term first a real term
would match fewer documents and then the
score contribution would be higher
because the idea of value will be higher
and and then it allows us to touch the
most promising documents at first so it
helps pruning some non promising Lancet
if we don't need a so many documents to
be returned to the user
all right so those are all heuristics or
further improving the accuracy here you
can also see how we can incorporate the
IDF waiting so they can imitate then we
incorporated when we process each query
time when we fetch the inverted index we
can affect the document frequency and
then we in a computer idea or maybe
perhaps the idea
Valon has already been precomputed when
we index the documents and that kind we
already computed the IDF value that
within just affect it so all these can
be done at this time so that would mean
when we process all the entries for
information these these weights will be
adjusted by the same IDF which is ideal
for information so this is the basic
idea of using inverted index for faster
search and works well for all kinds of
formulas that are of the general form
and this generally cover this general
form covers actually most
state-of-the-art retrieval functions so
there are some tricks to further improve
the efficiency some general technical
techniques include the caching this is
we just the store some results of
popular queries so that next time when
you see the same query you simply return
the story without similarly you can also
small the list of inverted index in the
memory for popular term and if the query
turns popular like that you will soon
need to fetch the inverted index for the
same term again so keeping the in the
memory would help and these are general
techniques for improving efficiency we
can also keep only the most promising I
could accumulate this because a user
generally doesn't know what to examine
so many documents we only need to return
high-quality subset of documents that
likely are ranked on the top in for that
purpose we can then prune the
accumulators we don't have to store all
the communities at some point we just
keep the highest value accumulators
another technique is to do parallel
processing and that's needed for really
processing such a large they have said
like the web data set and to scale up to
the web scale really do special to have
a special technique C to parallel
processing and to distribute the storage
of files on multiple machines
so here as a here's a list of some tax
retrieval tickets it's not a complete
list you can find more information at
this URL on the bottom here I listed
before here
Lucy is one of the most popular pockets
that can support a lot of applications
and it has very nice support for
applications you can use it to build a
search engine application very quickly
the downside that it's not that easy to
extend it and the algorithms implemented
they are also not the most advanced
algorithms
libero engine is another toolkit that
that that does not have such a nice
support application as you see but it
has many advanced search algorithms and
it's also easy to extend carrier is
there another toolkit that also has good
support for application capability and
some advanced algorithms so that's maybe
in between Lima or Lucy or maybe rather
combining the strengths of both so
that's also useful toolkit methods
toolkit that we will use for the
programming assignment and this is a new
pocket that has a combination of both
text or retrieval algorithms and the
text mining algorithms and so topic
models are implement there and there are
a number of text analysis algorithms
implemented in the toolkit as well as
basic search algorithms
so to summarize all the discussion about
the system implementation here are the
major takeaway points inverting that is
the primary data structure for
supporting a search engine
that's the key to enable faster response
to a user's query and the basic idea is
process the pre process that they are as
much as we can and we want to do
compression
great so that we can save disk space and
can speed up
io and the processing of inverted index
in general we talked about how they were
constructed in between decks when the
data can fit into the memory and then we
talked about the fast search using that
index basically to exploit the inverted
index to accumulate the scores for
documents matching operative and we
explore the Zips law to avoid touching
many documents that don't match any
clear return and this algorithm can
actually support a wide range of ranking
algorithms so these basically techniques
have have great potential for further
scanning up using distributed file
system parallel processing and the
caching here are two additional readings
you can take a look at if you have time
and you are interested in know more
about this the first one is a classic
textbook on the scale the efficiency of
inverted index and the compression
techniques and how to engender or build
efficient or searching in terms of the
space overhead and speed the second one
is a newer textbook that has a nice
discussion of implementing and
evaluating search engines